blog post for "parallel weighted sampling without replacement" (#94)
rstudio/ai-blog: _posts/2020-07-29-parallelized-sampling/parallelized-sampling.Rmd

---
title: "Parallelized sampling using exponential variates"
description: > 
  How can the seemingly iterative process of weighted sampling without replacement be transformed into something highly parallelizable? Turns out a well-known technique based on exponential variates accomplshes exactly that.
author:
  - name: Yitao Li
    affiliation: RStudio
    affiliation_url: https://www.rstudio.com/
bibliography: bibliography.bib
date: 07-29-2020
categories:
  - Probabilistic ML/DL
  - Concepts
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    self_contained: false
preview: images/dice.jpg
header-includes:
   \usepackage{algorithm2e}
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE, eval = FALSE)
```

> As part of my recent work to support weighted sampling of Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`, I embarked on a journey searching for algorithms that can perform weighted sampling, especially sampling without replacement, in efficient and scalable ways within a distributed cluster-computing framework such as Apache Spark.

Reviewer: I think you want to use the royal we across the entire blog post, as in:

```
As part of our recent work ..., we embarked.
```

When using the royal we it gives it more credibility, I think, as in, we reviewed your post, etc.

I'll also suggest later on we add a reference to the PR and sparklyr example, such that, for those that who reaelly want to know who to credit this work for, they'll have: a) The citation from distill b) The  author of this blog and c) The actual PR -- Should be quite obvious you are the author whom they should credit even if we use the royal "we".

In the interest of brevity, "weighted sampling without replacement" shall be shortened into `SWoR` for the remainder of this blog post.

In the following sections, I will explain and illustrate what `SWoR` means probability-wise, briefly outline some alternative solutions I have considered but was not completely satisfied with, and then deep-dive into exponential variates, a simple mathematical construct that made the ideal solution for this problem possible.

## How it all started?

My journey started from a [Github issue](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/issues/2592) inquiring about the possibility of supporting the equivalent of `dplyr::sample_frac(..., weight = <weight_column>)` for Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`. For example,

```{r}
dplyr::sample_frac(mtcars, 0.25, weight = gear, replace = FALSE)

> ```

Reviewer: I think is worth adding the output of `dplyr::sample_frac`, gives some context as to what we are trying to do.

Secondly, after defining all the required CDF functions $F_j(x) = e^{w_j \cdot x}$ for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, N\}$, we can also easily derive their corresponding PDF functions $f_j$: $$f_j(x) = \frac{d F_j(x)}{dx} = w_j e^{w_j \cdot x}$$.

Finally, with a clear understanding of the family of proability distributions this algorithm is working with, it is a non-difficult calculus exercise to show the probability of selecting any tuple of rows (say $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$) will be $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$, which implies the possible outcomes of this algorithm will have exactly the same probability distribution as that of a $n$-step `SWoR`.

In order to not deprive our dear readers the pleasure of completing this proof by themselves, I decided not to inline the rest of the proof within this blog post, and make everything available in [this file](proof.pdf) instead.

> 

Reviewer: I'd add add the code they need to try this out in `sparklyr`, maybe with something like:

````
This new algorithm just got implemented into `sparklyr` with PR #123. To try it out, install from GitHub followed by using `sample_frac` with the `weight` parameter:

```
remotes::install_github("sparklyr/sparklyr")

library(sparklyr)
sc <- spark_connect(master = "local")

copy_to(sc, mtcars) %>% 
  dplyr::sample_frac(0.25, weight = gear)
```
```
# ... output ...
```
````

## What exactly is `SWoR`?

Readers already having a crystal-clear mental picture of what `SWoR` entails should probably skip most of this section. The key take-away here is given $N$ rows $r_1, \dotsc, r_N$ and their weights $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$ and a desired sample size $n$, `SWoR` is conceptually equivalent to a $n$-step process of selecting 1 out of $n - j + 1$ remaining rows in the $j$-th step for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, n\}$, with each remaining row's likelihood of getting selected being linearly proportional to its weight in any of the steps, i.e.,

```
samples := {}
population := {r[1], ..., r[N]}

for j = 1 to n
  select r[x] from population with probability
    (w[x] / TotalWeight(population))
  samples := samples + {r[x]}
  population := population - {r[x]}
```

Therefore the probability of `SWoR` selecting a given sequence of $n$ rows $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$ is simply $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$.

Notice the outcome of a `SWoR` process is in fact order-significant, which is why in this post it will always be represented as an ordered tuple of elements.

> `SWoR` can also be explained in term of dart-throwing. For example, let's say the size of our sample space is 5:

Author: The math formula here simply describes the probability distribution of possible SWoR outcomes.

Even though it is straightforward, it definitely warrants a mentioning -- because the structure of this blog post is such that in the very next section, a slightly more complicated process is presented, and it will generate another seemingly different probability distribution which actually fits exactly the same description as the one mentioned in this section. So, the same formula must appear in both places.

Continuing with the dart-throwing analogy from the previous section, let us say initially, none of the tiles has been taken out yet, and a dart has landed at some point $x \in \left[0, \sum\limits_{k = 1}^{N} w_k\right)$. Which tile did it hit? This can be answered efficiently if we have a binary tree, pictured as the following (or in general, some $b$-ary tree for integer $b \ge 2$)

![.](images/tree.jpg){ width=60% height=40%}

To find the tile that was hit given the dart's position $x$, we simply need to traverse down the tree, going through the box containing $x$ in each level, incurring a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity for each sample. To take a tile out of the picture, we update the width of the tile to $0$ and propagate this change upwards from leaf level to root of the tree, again incurring a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity, making the overall time complexity of selecting $n$ samples $O(n \cdot \log(N))$, which is not so great for large data sets, and also, not parallelizable across multiple partitions of a Spark dataframe. 

### Rejection sampling

> Another possible approach is to use rejection sampling. In term of the previously mentioned dart-throwing analogy, that means not removing any tile that is hit, hence avoiding the performance cost of keeping the sample space up-to-date, but then having to re-throw the dart in each of the subsequent rounds until the dart lands on a tile that was not hit previously. This approach, just like the previous one, would not be performant, and would not be parallelizable across multiple partitions of a Spark dataframe either.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I'd bold (or italicize) and define in a sidenote perhaps?

First of all, to make sense of all the $\ln(u_j) / w_j$ calculations in this algorithm, one has to understand [inverse transform sampling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse_transform_sampling). For each $j \in \{1, \dotsc, N\}$, consider the probability distribution defined on $(-\infty, 0)$ with CDF $F_j(x) = e^{w_j \cdot x}$. In order to pluck out a value $y$ from this distribution, we first sample a value $u_j$ uniformly randomly out of $(0, 1)$ that determines the percentile of $y$ (i.e., how our $y$ value ranks relative to all possible $y$ values, a.k.a, the "overall population", from this distribution), and then apply $F_j^{-1}$ to $u_j$ to find $y$, so, $y = F_j^{-1}(u_j) = \ln(u_j) / w_j$.

Secondly, after defining all the required CDF functions $F_j(x) = e^{w_j \cdot x}$ for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, N\}$, we can also easily derive their corresponding PDF functions $f_j$: $$f_j(x) = \frac{d F_j(x)}{dx} = w_j e^{w_j \cdot x}$$.

> Finally, with a clear understanding of the family of proability distributions this algorithm is working with, it is a non-difficult calculus exercise to show the probability of selecting any tuple of rows (say $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$) will be $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$, which implies the possible outcomes of this algorithm will have exactly the same probability distribution as that of a $n$-step `SWoR`.

Reviewer: Lol, `non-difficult` to you Yitao! ^_^ Can we remove the `non-difficult` piece to make sure someone less-knowable (like me) of math topics doesn't feel left out?

Author: Sure! :sweat_smile:

---
title: "Parallelized sampling using exponential variates"
description: > 
  How can the seemingly iterative process of weighted sampling without replacement be transformed into something highly parallelizable? Turns out a well-known technique based on exponential variates accomplishes exactly that.
author:
  - name: Yitao Li
    affiliation: RStudio
    affiliation_url: https://www.rstudio.com/
bibliography: bibliography.bib
date: 07-29-2020
categories:
  - Concepts
  - Distributed Computing
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    self_contained: false
preview: images/dice.jpg
header-includes:
   \usepackage{algorithm2e}
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE, eval = FALSE)
```

> As part of our recent work to support weighted sampling of Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`, we embarked on a journey searching for algorithms that can perform weighted sampling, especially sampling without replacement, in efficient and scalable ways within a distributed cluster-computing framework such as Apache Spark.

Reviewer 2: I can't remember what you've done for past posts. so just double check that you have been doing dataframes as one word rather than two for consistency.

> As part of our recent work to support weighted sampling of Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`, we embarked on a journey searching for algorithms that can perform weighted sampling, especially sampling without replacement, in efficient and scalable ways within a distributed cluster-computing framework such as Apache Spark.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of our recent work to support weighted sampling of Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`, we embarked on a journey searching for algorithms that can perform weighted sampling, especially sampling without replacement, in efficient and scalable ways within a distributed cluster-computing framework, such as Apache Spark.
```

> In the interest of brevity, "weighted sampling without replacement" shall be shortened into `SWoR` for the remainder of this blog post.

Reviewer 2: Maybe make SWoR bold (or italics or both) rather than having it look like code, since you use that for package names and functions.

> In the following sections, we will explain and illustrate what `SWoR` means probability-wise, briefly outline some alternative solutions we have considered but were not completely satisfied with, and then deep-dive into exponential variates, a simple mathematical construct that made the ideal solution for this problem possible.

Reviewer 2: Same as above re. SWoR

> If you cannot wait to jump into action, there is also a [section](#examples) in which we showcase example usages of `sdf_weighted_sample()` in `sparklyr`. In addition, you can go to this [pull request](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2606) to examine all implementation details of `sparklyr::sdf_weighted_sample()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you cannot wait to jump into action, there is also a [section](#examples) in which we showcase example usages of `sdf_weighted_sample()` in `sparklyr`. In addition, you can go to this [pull request](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2606) to examine the implementation details of `sparklyr::sdf_weighted_sample()`.
```

## How it all started

> Our journey started from a [Github issue](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/issues/2592) inquiring about the possibility of supporting the equivalent of `dplyr::sample_frac(..., weight = <weight_column>)` for Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`. For example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our journey began with a [Github issue](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/issues/2592) inquiring about the possibility of supporting the equivalent of `dplyr::sample_frac(..., weight = <weight_column>)` for Spark dataframes in `sparklyr`. For example,
```

Reviewer 2: Just changing the language a little bit, since "started" is in the header. 🙂

```{r}
dplyr::sample_frac(mtcars, 0.25, weight = gear, replace = FALSE)
```

```
##                    mpg cyl  disp  hp drat    wt  qsec vs am gear carb
## Merc 280C         17.8   6 167.6 123 3.92 3.440 18.90  1  0    4    4
## Chrysler Imperial 14.7   8 440.0 230 3.23 5.345 17.42  0  0    3    4
## Fiat X1-9         27.3   4  79.0  66 4.08 1.935 18.90  1  1    4    1
## Hornet Sportabout 18.7   8 360.0 175 3.15 3.440 17.02  0  0    3    2
## Valiant           18.1   6 225.0 105 2.76 3.460 20.22  1  0    3    1
## Porsche 914-2     26.0   4 120.3  91 4.43 2.140 16.70  0  1    5    2
## Maserati Bora     15.0   8 301.0 335 3.54 3.570 14.60  0  1    5    8
## Ferrari Dino      19.7   6 145.0 175 3.62 2.770 15.50  0  1    5    6
```

> will randomly select one-fourth of all rows from a R dataframe named "mtcars" without replacement, using `mtcars$gear` as weights. We were unable to find any function implementing the weighted versions of `dplyr::sample_frac` among [Spark SQL built-in functions](https://spark.apache.org/docs/3.0.0/api/sql/index.html) in Spark 3.0 or in earlier versions, which means a future version of `sparklyr` will need to run its own weighted sampling algorithm to support such use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will randomly select one-fourth of all rows from a R dataframe named "mtcars" without replacement, using `mtcars$gear` as weights. We were unable to find any function implementing the weighted versions of `dplyr::sample_frac()` among [Spark SQL built-in functions](https://spark.apache.org/docs/3.0.0/api/sql/index.html) in Spark 3.0 or in earlier versions, which means a future version of `sparklyr` will need to run its own weighted sampling algorithm to support such use cases.
```

Reviewer 2: Added parens after function name

> ## What exactly is `SWoR` {#swor}

Reviewer 2: If you decide to go with my suggestion re. SWoR, this section will need a little revamp as well.

> The purpose of this section is to mathematically describe the probability distribution generated by `SWoR` in terms of $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$, so that readers can clearly see that the exponential-variate based algorithm presented in a subsequent section in fact samples from precisely the same probability distribution. Readers already having a crystal-clear mental picture of what `SWoR` entails should probably skip most of this section. The key take-away here is given $N$ rows $r_1, \dotsc, r_N$ and their weights $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$ and a desired sample size $n$, the probability of `SWoR` selecting $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$ is $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$.

Reviewer 2: I think you can address the "Readers" as "you" here to give it a more conversational tone. ~ _"If you already have a clear mental picture of what `SWoR` entails, you can skip most of this section."_

note: I took out "crystal" from "crystal clear" because it _verges_ on sounding sarcastic (I know that's not the intent at all, but since there's no real value add to keeping it in, might as well tread lightly).

> `SWOR` is conceptually equivalent to a $n$-step process of selecting 1 out of $(n - j + 1)$ remaining rows in the $j$-th step for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, n\}$, with each remaining row's likelihood of getting selected being linearly proportional to its weight in any of the steps, i.e.,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SWOR` is conceptually equivalent to an $n$-step process of selecting 1 out of $(n - j + 1)$ remaining rows in the $j$-th step for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, n\}$, with each remaining row's likelihood of getting selected being linearly proportional to its weight in any of the steps, i.e.,
```

```
samples := {}
population := {r[1], ..., r[N]}

for j = 1 to n
  select r[x] from population with probability
    (w[x] / TotalWeight(population))
  samples := samples + {r[x]}
  population := population - {r[x]}
```

> Notice the outcome of a `SWoR` process is in fact order-significant, which is why in this post it will always be represented as an ordered tuple of elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice the outcome of a `SWoR` process is in fact order-significant, which is why it will always be represented as an ordered tuple of elements in this post.
```

Reviewer 2: Did a little word reordering to avoid having to offset "in this post" with commas.

> Intuitively, `SWoR` is analogous to throwing darts at a bunch of tiles. For example, let's say the size of our sample space is 5:

Reviewer 2: Not gonna lie, I'm a little distracted by the vision of a dart being thrown at a tile. since it would just smack it and fall to the floor, but I don't think you actually need to change anything here. 🎯

  
- After a tile is hit, it gets taken out and remaining tiles are re-arranged so that they continue to cover a contiguous interval without overlapping

If our sample size is 3, then we shall ask ourselves what is the probability of the dart hitting $(r_1, r_2, r_3)$ in that order? 

In step $j = 1$, the dart will hit $r_1$ with probability $\left. w_1 \middle/ \left(\sum\limits_{k = 1}^{N}w_k\right) \right.$

![step 1](images/d1.jpg){ width=50% height=50% } .

After deleting $r_1$ from the sample space after it's hit, step $j = 2$ will look like this:

![step 2](images/d2.jpg){ width=48% height=45% } ,

and the probability of the dart hitting $r_2$ in step 2 is $\left. w_2 \middle/ \left(\sum\limits_{k = 2}^{N}w_k\right) \right.$ .

Finally, moving on to step $j = 3$, we have:

![step 3](images/d3.jpg){ width=40% height=30% } ,

with the probability of the dart hitting $r_3$ being $\left. w_3 \middle/ \left(\sum\limits_{k = 3}^{N}w_k\right) \right.$.

So, combining all of the above, the overall probability of selecting  $(r_1, r_2, r_3)$ is $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{3} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$.

## Naive approaches for implementing `SWoR`

> This section outlines some possible approaches that were briefly under consideration. Because none of these approaches scales well to a large number of rows or a non-trivial number of partitions in a Spark dataframe, we decided to avoid all of them in `sparklyr`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section outlines some possible approaches that we briefly considered. Because none of these approaches scale well to a large number of rows or a non-trivial number of partitions in a Spark dataframe, we decided to avoid all of them in `sparklyr`.
```

Reviewer 2: Just minimizing passive voice here.

### A tree-base approach

One possible way to accomplish `SWoR` is to have a mutable data structure keeping track of the sample space at each step.

Continuing with the dart-throwing analogy from the previous section, let us say initially, none of the tiles has been taken out yet, and a dart has landed at some point $x \in \left[0, \sum\limits_{k = 1}^{N} w_k\right)$. Which tile did it hit? This can be answered efficiently if we have a binary tree, pictured as the following (or in general, some $b$-ary tree for integer $b \ge 2$)

![.](images/tree.jpg){ width=60% height=40%}

> To find the tile that was hit given the dart's position $x$, we simply need to traverse down the tree, going through the box containing $x$ in each level, incurring a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity for each sample. To take a tile out of the picture, we update the width of the tile to $0$ and propagate this change upwards from leaf level to root of the tree, again incurring a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity, making the overall time complexity of selecting $n$ samples $O(n \cdot \log(N))$, which is not so great for large data sets, and also, not parallelizable across multiple partitions of a Spark dataframe. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the tile that was hit given the dart's position $x$, we simply need to traverse down the tree, going through the box containing $x$ in each level, incurring a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity for each sample. To take a tile out of the picture, we update the width of the tile to $0$ and propagate this change upwards from leaf level to root of the tree. This, again, incurs a $O(\log(N))$ cost in time complexity, making the overall time complexity of selecting $n$ samples $O(n \cdot \log(N))$, which is not so great for large data sets, and also, not parallelizable across multiple partitions of a Spark dataframe. 
```

Reviewer 2: Took a shot at breaking up that last sentence, per @skeydan's suggestion. But, given my lack of content expertise, it might not work well.

- Select $n$ rows with largest keys and return them as the result. This step is also mostly parallelizable: for each partition of $X$, one can select up to $n$ rows having largest keys within that partition as candidates, and after selecting candidates from all partitions in parallel, simply extract the top $n$ rows among all candidates, and return them as the $n$ chosen samples.

There are at least 4 reasons why this solution is highly appealing and was chosen to be implemented in `sparklyr`:

- It is a one-pass algorithm (i.e., only need to iterate through all rows of a dataframe exactly once).
- Its computational overhead is quite low (as selecting top $n$ rows at any stage only requires a bounded priority queue of max size $n$, which costs $O(\log(n))$ per update in time complexity).
- More importantly, most of its required computations can be performed in parallel. In fact, the only non-parallelizable step is the very last stage of combining top candidates from all partitions and choosing the top $n$ rows among those candidates. So, it fits very well into the world of Spark / MapReduce, and has drastically better horizontal scalability compared to the naive approaches.

> - Bonus: it is also suitable for weighted reservoir sampling (i.e., can sample $n$ out of a possibly infinite stream of rows according to their weights such that at any moment the $n$ samples will be a weighted representation of all rows that have been processed so far).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Bonus: It is also suitable for weighted reservoir sampling (i.e., can sample $n$ out of a possibly infinite stream of rows according to their weights such that at any moment the $n$ samples will be a weighted representation of all rows that have been processed so far).
```

Secondly, after defining all the required CDF functions $F_j(x) = e^{w_j \cdot x}$ for $j \in \{1, \dotsc, N\}$, we can also easily derive their corresponding PDF functions $f_j$: $$f_j(x) = \frac{d F_j(x)}{dx} = w_j e^{w_j \cdot x}$$.

Finally, with a clear understanding of the family of probability distributions involved, one can prove the probability of this algorithm selecting a given sequence of rows $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$ is equal to $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$, identical to the probability previously mentioned in the ["What exactly is `SWoR`"](#swor) section, which implies the possible outcomes of this algorithm will follow exactly the same probability distribution as that of a $n$-step `SWoR`.

> In order to not deprive our dear readers the pleasure of completing this proof by themselves, we decided to not inline the rest of the proof (which boils down to a calculus exercise) within this blog post, and make everything available in [this file](proof.pdf) instead.

Reviewer 2: I'd just say that the complete proof is available in this file— maybe _"We have decided not to inline the rest of the proof (which boils down to a calculus exercise) within this post, but it is available in [this file](proof.pdf)."_

This is totally stems from my personal pet peeve from maths papers that tell me to work out the rest (which they usually call "trivial") 🤪

# Weighted sampling with replacement

While all previous sections were solely focused on weighted sampling without replacement, this section will briefly discuss how the exponential-variate approach can also benefit the weighted-sampling-with-replacement use case (which will be shortened as `SWR` from now on).

> Although `SWR` with sample size $n$ can obviously be carried out by $n$ independent processes each selecting $1$ sample, parallelizing a `SWR` workload across all partitions of a Spark dataframe (let's call it $X$) will still be more performant if the number of partitions is much larger than $n$ and more than $n$ executors are available in a Spark cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although `SWR` with sample size $n$ can be carried out by $n$ independent processes each selecting $1$ sample, parallelizing a `SWR` workload across all partitions of a Spark dataframe (let's call it $X$) will still be more performant if the number of partitions is much larger than $n$ and more than $n$ executors are available in a Spark cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: I just try to remove words like "obviously" where I can, since there's always a chance it's non-obvious to a reader, and just makes them feel bad.

The code snippet below is an example implementation in which each partition of the input Spark dataframe is sampled using a different sequence of pseudorandom numbers:

```
  def sampleWithoutReplacement(
    rdd: RDD[Row],
    weightColumn: String,
    sampleSize: Int,
    seed: Long
  ): RDD[Row] = {
    val sc = rdd.context
    if (0 == sampleSize) {
      sc.emptyRDD
    } else {
      val mapRDDs = rdd.mapPartitionsWithIndex { (index, iter) =>
        val random = new Random(seed + index)

        for (row <- iter) {
          val weight = row.getAs[Double](weightColumn)
          val key = scala.math.log(random.nextDouble) / weight
          <and then make sampling decision for `row` based on its `key`,
           as described in the previous section>
        }

        ...
      }
    ...
  }
}
```

> An example test case in which a two-sided Kolmogorov-Smirnov test is used to compare distribution of sampling outcomes from `dplyr::slice_sample` with that from `sparklyr::sdf_weighted_sample` is shown in [this file](test_plan). Such tests have proven to be effective in surfacing non-obvious implementation errors such as the ones mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example test case in which a two-sided Kolmogorov-Smirnov test is used to compare distribution of sampling outcomes from `dplyr::slice_sample()` with that from `sparklyr::sdf_weighted_sample()` is shown in [this file](test_plan). Such tests have proven to be effective in surfacing non-obvious implementation errors such as the ones mentioned above.
```

# Example Usages {#examples}

Please note the `sparklyr::sdf_weighted_sample()` functionality is not included in any official release of `sparklyr` yet. We are aiming to ship it as part of `sparklyr` 1.4 in about 2 to 3 months from now.

In the meanwhile, you can try it out with the following steps:

First, make sure `devtools` is installed, and then run

```
devtools::install_github("sparklyr/sparklyr", ref = "master")
```

> to install `sparklyr` from source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to install `sparklyr` from source.
```

will randomly select one-fourth of all rows from a R dataframe named "mtcars" without replacement, using `mtcars$gear` as weights. We were unable to find any function implementing the weighted versions of `dplyr::sample_frac` among [Spark SQL built-in functions](https://spark.apache.org/docs/3.0.0/api/sql/index.html) in Spark 3.0 or in earlier versions, which means a future version of `sparklyr` will need to run its own weighted sampling algorithm to support such use cases.

## What exactly is `SWoR`

> The purpose of this section is to mathematically describe the probability distribution generated by `SWoR` in terms of $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$, so that readers can clearly see the exponential-variate based algorithm presented in a subsequent section in fact samples from precisely the same probability distribution. Readers already having a crystal-clear mental picture of what `SWoR` entails should probably skip most of this section. The key take-away here is given $N$ rows $r_1, \dotsc, r_N$ and their weights $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$ and a desired sample size $n$, the probability of `SWoR` selecting $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$ is $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purpose of this section is to mathematically describe the probability distribution generated by `SWoR` in terms of $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$, so that readers can clearly see that the exponential-variate based algorithm presented in a subsequent section in fact samples from precisely the same probability distribution. Readers already having a crystal-clear mental picture of what `SWoR` entails should probably skip most of this section. The key take-away here is given $N$ rows $r_1, \dotsc, r_N$ and their weights $w_1, \dotsc, w_N$ and a desired sample size $n$, the probability of `SWoR` selecting $(r_1, \dotsc, r_n)$ is $\prod\limits_{j = 1}^{n} \left( {w_j} \middle/ {\sum\limits_{k = j}^{N}{w_k}} \right)$.
```

Reviewer 3: that indeed makes the purpose more clear
